To be, or not to be, that is the question:
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
And by opposing end them. To die: to sleep;
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
Must give us pause.
All the world's a stage,
And all the men and women merely players;
They have their exits and their entrances;
And one man in his time plays many parts,
His acts being seven ages.
If music be the food of love, play on;
Give me excess of it, that, surfeiting,
The appetite may sicken, and so die.
That strain again! it had a dying fall:
O, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound,
That breathes upon a bank of violets,
Stealing and giving odour!
Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears;
I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
The evil that men do lives after them;
The good is oft interred with their bones;
So let it be with Caesar.
The noble Brutus hath told you Caesar was ambitious:
If it were so, it was a grievous fault,
And grievously hath Caesar answer'd it.
But soft, what light through yonder window breaks?
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
Who is already sick and pale with grief,
That thou her maid art far more fair than she.
O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
Deny thy father and refuse thy name;
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
What's in a name? that which we call a rose
By any other name would smell as sweet;
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
Without that title.
Now is the winter of our discontent
Made glorious summer by this sun of York;
And all the clouds that lour'd upon our house
In the deep bosom of the family buried.
Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow,
Creeps in this petty pace from day to day,
To the last syllable of recorded time;
And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
The way to dusty death.
Out, out, brief candle!
Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player,
That struts and frets his hour upon the stage,
And then is heard no more. It is a tale
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
Signifying nothing.
The quality of mercy is not strain'd;
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
Upon the place beneath. It is twice blest:
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes.
'Tis mightiest in the mightiest; it becomes
The throned monarch better than his crown.
His sceptre shows the force of temporal power,
The attribute to awe and majesty,
Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings;
But mercy is above this sceptred sway;
It is enthroned in the hearts of kings,
It is an attribute to God himself;
And earthly power doth then show likest God's
When mercy seasons justice.
We are such stuff as dreams are made on,
And our little life is rounded with a sleep.
Cowards die many times before their deaths;
The valiant never taste of death but once.
Of all the wonders that I yet have heard,
It seems to me most strange that men should fear;
Seeing that death, a necessary end,
Will come when it will come.
To thine own self be true,
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
This above all: to thine own self be true.
There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
Good night, good night! Parting is such sweet sorrow,
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none.
The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Though she be but little, she is fierce.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind,
And therefore is winged Cupid painted blind.
If we shadows have offended,
Think but this, and all is mended,
That you have but slumber'd here
While these visions did appear.
Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Thou art more lovely and more temperate.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes,
I all alone beweep my outcast state,
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
And look upon myself and curse my fate.
Let me not to the marriage of true minds
Admit impediments. Love is not love
Which alters when it alteration finds,
Or bends with the remover to remove.
O, it is a love that looks on tempests and is never shaken;
It is the star to every wandering bark,
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
We know what we are, but know not what we may be.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
The rest is silence.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
Frailty, thy name is woman!
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice.
What a piece of work is a man! How noble in reason,
How infinite in faculty! In form and moving how
Express and admirable! In action how like an angel,
In apprehension how like a god!
The beauty of the world! The paragon of animals!
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars,
But in ourselves, that we are underlings.
Beware the ides of March.
Et tu, Brute? Then fall, Caesar!
The better part of valour is discretion.
Our doubts are traitors,
And make us lose the good we oft might win
By fearing to attempt.
Be not afraid of greatness. Some are born great,
Some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.
If you prick us, do we not bleed?
If you tickle us, do we not laugh?
If you poison us, do we not die?
And if you wrong us, shall we not revenge?
This above all, to thine own self be true.
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is
To have a thankless child!
Lord, what fools these mortals be!
All that glitters is not gold.
The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
What's past is prologue.
We few, we happy few, we band of brothers;
For he today that sheds his blood with me
Shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile,
This day shall gentle his condition.
O brave new world, that has such people in it!
Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more;
Or close the wall up with our English dead.
In peace there's nothing so becomes a man
As modest stillness and humility;
But when the blast of war blows in our ears,
Then imitate the action of the tiger.
Some are born great, some achieve greatness,
And some have greatness thrust upon them.
I am a man more sinned against than sinning.
How poor are they that have not patience!
What wound did ever heal but by degrees?
Men at some time are masters of their fates.
The miserable have no other medicine but only hope.
Our revels now are ended. These our actors,
As I foretold you, were all spirits, and
Are melted into air, into thin air.
